ERC-20 Token:

The Ethereum blockchain allows you to create your own cryptocurrency, or token, that can be purchased with Ether, the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain. 
ERC-20 is simply a standard that specifies how these tokens behave, so that they are compatible with other platforms like cryptocurrency exchanges.

Ethereum is a blockchain like Bitcoin. Like Bitcoin, Ethereum keeps track of account balances for people who own Ether, Ethereum’s native cryptocurrency. Unlike Bitcoin, Ethereum is also a platform that
allows you to create your own token without creating a new blockchain.

You can create an Ethereum token with a smart contract. ERC-20 is a 
standard that specifies how this token smart contract should work.

Crowd Sale (ICO):

ERC-20 tokens can be distributed in a variety of ways. One popular method is holding a crowd sale,
or an initial coin offering (ICO). Crowd sales are a way for a company to raise capital for their business
by creating their own ERC-20 token that can be purchased by investors with Ether.

Whenever a crowd sale takes place, the company gets liquid capital in the form of Ether that was paid by the investors,
as well as holding onto a reserved amount of the ERC-20 tokens that were sold in the crowd sale.

The smart contract sets the price of the token in the crowd sale and governs how the crowd sale behaves.

Crowd sales can take on all kinds of shapes and sizes. They can have multiple tiers or phases, like Pre ICO, ICO, and ICO Bonus phase. 
Each of these tiers can happen at different points of time and can behave differently.

They can also have a reserved amount of tokens that are not sold in the crowd sale. These reserves are usually set aside for specific members
of each company like founders and advisors. These reserves can be a fixed amount of tokens or a percentage.

Whenever a crowd sale ends, it can be finalized by an administrator. Whenever this happens, all of the reserved tokens will be distributed to the 
appropriate accounts and the crowd sale will officially be over.

How ERC20 Token works

In the case of an ERC-20 token, the smart contract governs all of the behavior about how the token works,
and keeps track of token ownership and account balances.

ERC-20 is an API specification for how Ethereum tokens should be built. It is a community adopted standard that allows tokens to be supported
in a variety of use cases. We want to build a token that is compliant with this standard so that it can be widely accepted. If we did not have 
a standard like this, we could have endless ways to create tokens, and they might not be compatible with one another!

Using the ERC-20 standard ensures that a token is compliant for the following use cases (and more):

Wallet transfers - sending tokens from one account to another
Buying and selling on cryptocurrency exchanges
Purchasing tokens in an crowd sale (ICO) like we'll demonstrate in this tutorial

ERC-20 standard the following ways:

The function exists.
It accepts the correct arguments.
It fails if the user doesn't have enough tokens to transfer, i.e., an insufficient balance.
It transfers the balance from the sender's account to the receiver's account.
It triggers a sell event.
It returns the correct value, e.g., true.

The Ethereum Improvement Proposal github repository. 
This is where all of the community discussion around Ethereum standards takes place.
















































































